62 SALMON A LA HOLLAND AISE.

Salmon a la HoUandaise. — Heat a
pound of canned salmon in the original can ;
turn it out on a hot dish, garnish neatly, and
pour over it the following sauce : Cream two
ounces of butter, whisk into it the yolks of
two beaten eggs, add a little salt and white
pepper, and half a teaspoonful of strong vinegar ;
put the pan in a larger one containing hot
water, whisk it until it thickens, and just before
serving add a little lemon-juice.

Salmon, Hunter's Style. — One of the
best dishes I have ever eaten while hunting was
prepared as follows : Take three one-pound cans
of salmon (save the liquid), and divide into neat
pieces ; make a dough as for milk biscuits :
divide half of it into litde balls ; take one box
of sardines ; put a layer of sliced bacon in the
bottom of a gallon crock ; add a layer of sal-
mon, a few dough balls, two sardines, salt, cay-
enne. Continue arranging in alternate layers
until the ingredients are all used ; add a wine-
glassful of vinegar to the salmon liquid, and
if there is not enough add a little water ; cover
the top with the remainder of the dough, and
tie one or two thicknesses of white cloth over
all. Dig a hole deep enough to be lined with
mud or stones and to receive the crock ; build
a fire in and over it (the smoke will keep off the



BOUILLABAISSE 6^

mosquitoes). When reduced to coals, scoop
out the ashes and coals from the hole, cover the
cloth with mud, set the crock in the hole, and
cover up with the hot ashes ; let it remain three
hours, and a more satisfactory dish cannot be
imagined.

Bouillabaisse. — This celebrated dish was
immortalized by Thackeray. Put into a frying-
pan a gill of olive-oil, a clove of garlic minced,
a tablespoonful of chopped onion, two cloves,
six peppercorns ; when slightly brown, add one
pound of canned salmon and the salmon liquid
in the can ; add a little salt, a bit of bay leaf,
three sHces of lemon, a pint of tomato pulp, a
pinch of curry-powder or saffron, a gill of Rhine
wine, with water enough to cover the fish : sim-
mer twenty minutes. Line a deep dish with
toast, remove from the pan all seasoning in sight,
pour the contents of the pan on the toast, and
serve.



CODFISH.



Boiled Codfish, Oyster Sauce. — The

only thing that can be urged against this most
excellent fish is its homely name. Were it not
so cheap, its good qualities would rapidly find



64 CODFISH TONGUES.

favor at all gastronomic entertainments where
palate-pleasing dishes are appreciated. Put the
fish into boiling water, slighdy salted ; add a
few whole cloves and peppers, and a bit of
lemon-peel ; pull gently on the fins, and when
they come out easily the fish is done. Arrange
neatly on a folded napkin, garnish, and serve
with oyster sauce. Take six oysters to every
pound of fish, and scald them in a half-pint of
hot oyster liquor ; take out the oysters, and add
to the liquor, salt, pepper, a bit of mace, and an
ounce of butter; whip into it a gill of milk,
containing half of a teaspoonful of flour. Sim-
mer a moment ; add the oysters, and send to
table in a sauce-boat.

A four-pound fish should cook in about forty
minutes.

Codfish Tongues. — Wash four codfish
tongues thoroughly in cold water; put them
on the range in hot water, slightly salted, and
boil thirty minutes ; drain ; arrange neatly on
a folded napkin placed upon a hot dish ; gar-
nish with parsley and slices of lemon, and send
to table with cream sauce.

Codfish Steak. — Select a medium-sized
fresh codfish, cut it in steaks crosswise of the
fish about an inch and a half thick ; sprinkle a
little salt over them, and let them stand two



NEW-ENGLAND CODFISH BALLS. 65

hours. Cut into dice a pound of salt fat pork,
fry out all the fat from them, and remove the
crisp bits of pork ; put the codfish steaks in a
pan of corn-meal, dredge them with it, and,
when the pork-fat is smoking hot, fry the steaks
in it to a dark brown color on both sides.
Squeeze over them a little lemon-juice, add a
dash of freshly ground pepper, and serve with
hot, old-fashioned, well buttered johnny-cake.

New-England Codfish Balls. — Shred
the codfish the night before, and soak it over
night ; drain quite dry on towel next day. Mash
fine one pound of hot boiled potatoes. Take
an equal amount of codfish, and divide it very
fine. Mix both together, and add the beaten
yolks of two eggs, two ounces of melted butter,
and a saltspoonful of white pepper. Now beat
the mixture until it is very light, for upon this
process depends the success or failure of the
dish. In shaping them together, do not press
them any more than is absolutely necessary.
Most cooks press them into cakes so hard
that it is next to an impossibility to eat them.
Dredge them lightly with a little flour, and fry
them like doughnuts in smoking hot fat. When
properly prepared and cooked they should fairly
melt in the mouth, which they will do if thor-
oughly beaten and lightly handled.



66 BAKED COD.

Baked Cod. — When purchasing a four-
pound cod, ask your fish-dealer to send you
three " codfish-heads ; " and as soon as the bas-
ket comes into the house, rub a httle salt on the
fish, chop the heads into six pieces each, and
sprinkle a little salt over them. Place them in
the centre of the baking-pan (to be used as
supports for the fish), with a gill of water. Set
the pan in the o^■en while you prepare the cod.

Soak in cold water until soft a sufiiciency of
bread to fill the fish ; drain off the water, and
pound the bread to a paste ; mix with it two
tiblepoonsfuls of melted butter, t^\'0 raw eggs, a
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce, with salt
and pepper to taste. Put this stuffing inside the
fish, and sew it up ; place the cod in the pan
with two or three pieces of butter on the upper
side of the fish, and baste it frequently ; when it
is cooked, lay the fish on a hot platter, and gar-
nish with fried oysters if convenient. Add a
tablespoonful of browm flour to the pan, a \\'ine-
glass of claret ; mix, and strain the gra\y into a
sauce-boat. Time to cook, one hour.

Salt Codfish with Cream. — Soak one
pound and a half of salt codfish over night.
Next morning set the fish to simmer for about
two hours ; drain off the water, and strip the fish
into shreds ; place it in a saucepan with a quart



SCROD. 67

of milk and two ounces of butter ; mix a table-
spoonfal of flour with two tablespoonfuls of cold
milk, and add to the fish. Let the whole come to
a boil ; remove the dish from the fire, beat up one
tgg to a froth, add it to the fish, stir, and serve.
Scrod. — Small codfish no larger than our
tomcod are called scrod in Eastern Massachu-
setts. Afier they have been corned over night,
they are broiled and fried.



BROOK TROUT.

Cultivated trout may be purchased at from
sixty to seventy- five cents per pound, and wild
trout from twenty-five to thirty-five cents per
pound, after April first. There are many house-
keepers who will not purchase the latter, think-
ing that as they are cheaper, they cannot be so
good as the more expensive trout. Cultivated
trout are only trout in name and outside appear-
ance, and no more compare in flavor with the
wild trout than chalk does with cheese. They
are fattened (not allowed to feed naturally) on
cheap animal food that destroys all trout flavor ;
and they live in artificial streams or ponds,
acquiring a peculiar swampy flavor which is
decidedly objectionable.



68 BROOK TROUT, SPORTSMAN STYLE.

The wild trout lives in clear running streams,
fed from never-ending springs ; here he finds a
beautiful supply of food furnished by nature's
generous hand, instead of the refuse of the
butcher furnished to his more aristocratic
brother. Besides being superior in every way,
the wild trout is always cheaper.

Shippers of trout often pack their speckled
beauties in moss, which injures their flavor ma-
terially ; and the housekeeper is obliged to let
them stand in cold water, shghtly salted, to
extract the flavor of the moss. This is a good
plan to follow, by the way, when the trout are
frozen, as nearly all wild trout are in the early
spring.

Brook Trout, Sportsman Style. ^ — Clean
and rinse a quarter-of-a-pound trout in cold
spring water ; dry it in a towel. Cut half a
pound of salt pork into small pieces ; put these
into a thoroughly clean frying-pan ; fry out the
clear fat, and remove the small pieces of pork.
Rub a little fine table-salt in the inside of the
fish, and when the pork-fat is smoking hot, add
the fish to it ; turn it three times before it is
done. When nicely browned, serve it on a hot
dish, and send it to the table without adding
condiments of any kind. Should you be able to
procure fresh butter, a little may be put on the



BROILED TROUT. 69

fish before it is served, but it must be of
the very best quaUty.

Broiled Trout. — The foregoing is a recipe
for cooking trout immediately after catching
them. After they are brought to our city mar-
kets from distant mountain streams, however,
they are most toothsome when broiled over a
decHning fire, and require a seasoning of salt,
pepper, and a little lemon-juice mixed with the
sweetest of sweet butter. Serve with hot plates.

Brook Trout, Baked. — Trout weigliing a
pound or over are best when served baked,
though many sportsmen will not listen to this
proposition. The outside of a large trout is
almost ruined in broiling before the centre of
the fish is cooked. Do not split the fish down
the back. Take half a pint of fine grated bread-
crumbs, and soak them in a little milk ; squeeze
out tlie milk ; add two ounces of table butter, a
saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of white
pepper, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, and
the slightest sprig of thyme ; add the yolk of
one raw egg ; mix ; open the trout just enough
to clean it properly ; remove the gills (leave the
heads on), fill the cavity with the stuffing, and
sew it up carefully. Put the fish in a tin, on top
of it place small bits of butter previously roiled
in flour, place it in a good oven, and bake with



70 BROOK TROUT, BOILED.

the back toward the hottest part of the oven.
The length of time it will take to cook properly
is from twenty to thirty minutes, very often a
little longer, for much depends on the tempera-
ture of the oven.

Brook Trout, Boiled. — To boil trout
seems an outrage ; but when one receives a
large quantity of them, and there is danger of
their spoiling if not immediately used, put four
small trout properly cleaned into a saucepan,
cover them with claret, add a slice of lemon,
two cloves, four whole peppers, the least bit of
mace, and a heaping saltspoonful of salt. Sim-
mer slowly three-quarters of an hour ; remove
the saucepan from the range, and when cold
take out the fish, put them in a dish, and pour
the boiled wine over them. Serve at luncheon
or collations.

The head, tail, and fins of trout should not be
removed before cooking.



MISCELLANEOUS.

Catfish, Fried. — Catfish and waffles is a
combination dear to the hearts of Philadelphians,
and the road-houses near that city are celebrated
for cooking them. Select the fish already cleaned,



THE TENDERLOIN TROUT. 7 1

as it is a troublesome job to clean them, and
pick out the white instead of the red catfish ;
rub a little salt along the backbone on the in-
side, and let the fish stand over night. Next
day dredge theip with corn-meal or flour, and
fry in a little fat ; sprinkle salt and pepper over
them before serving.

The Tenderloin Trout. — Large catfish
are caught in Southern rivers ; and while they are
fair eating, they are not popular with the whites
in the vicinity of New Orleans. The restaur-
ant people, however, cut the fish into pieces an
inch square and about four inches long ; these
are dipped in egg, rolled in crumbs, and fried
and served as tenderloin trout.

Fricasseed Eels. — Cut up three pounds
of eels into pieces of three inches in length ;
put them into a stewpan, and cover them with
Rhine wine (or two-thirds water and one-third
vinegar) ; add fifteen oysters, two pieces of
lemon, a bouquet of herbs, one onion quartered,
six cloves, three stalks celery, a pinch of cayenne,
pepper and salt to taste. Stew the eels one
hour ; remove them from the dish ; strain the
liquor. Put it back into the stewpan with a
gill of cream and an ounce of butter rolled in
flour ; simmer gently a few minutes, pour over
the fish, and serve.



72 EEL PAITIES.

Eel Patties. — Take three medium-sized
eels, and cut them up into inch pieces. Put
them in a stewpan, add salt, and cover them
with cold water. When the water comes to a
boil, take them off the fire, wash them in cold
water, scrape off any fat that may adhere, return
them to the stewpan with just enough hot water
to cover them, and add a blade of mace, a bay
leaf, a few whole peppers, a few sprigs of pars-
ley, and one lemon cut into slices. Stew gently
until the fish will separate from the bone ; re-
move the fish from the broth, pick it into small
pieces, and set them aside ; reduce the broth a
little, strain, and thicken with flour and butter.
Return the fish to the broth, simmer a moment,
fill your patties, and serve ; make patty- shells as
directed for oyster patties.

Stewed Eels, Hoboken Turtle Club
Style. — Cut into three-inch pieces two pounds
of medium-sized cleaned eels. Rub the inside of
each piece with salt. Let stand half an hour,
then parboil them. Boil an onion in a quart of
milk, and remove the onion. Drain the eels from
the water, and add them to the milk. Season
with half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt
and pepper, and the slightest suspicion of mace.
Simmer until the flesh falls from the bones.

Fried eels should be slightly salted before



PAN BASS, ANCHOVY BUTTER. 73

cooking them. Do not cover them with batter,
but dredge them with just flour enough to ab-
sorb all moisture, then cover them with boiling
fat, as for doughnut cooking. Many New Eng-
land families use corn-meal to dredge them with
instead of flour.

Eels en matelotie, or sailor fashion, are appre-
ciated by many. Cut them into three-inch
pieces, and salt them. Fry an onion brown in a
little dripping ; add half a pint of broth to the
brown onion, part of a bay leaf, six broken pep-
percorns, four whole cloves, and a gill of claret.
Add the eels to this, and simmer until thoroughly
cooked. Remove the eels, put them on a hot
dish, add a teaspoonful of browned flour to the
sauce, strain, and pour over the eels.

Pan Bass, Anchovy Butter. — During
February, March, and the first part of April,
there may be foimd in market a variety of bass
which much resembles the Oswego bass. They
come from the Carolinas and Virginia, and are
excellent eating. Let them stand an hour in
salt water, then drain and wipe dry, and fry
them in tried-out salt-pork fat. Serve them
with a butter made as follows : Mix together a
teaspoonful of anchovy paste with a tablespoon-
ful of sweet butter, and, if not objected to, add
a few blades of chopped chives.



74 FILLET OF FLOUNDER, TARTAR SAUCE.

The chive has the flavor peculiar to the onion
family, but in a mild form. It is cultivated by
truck gardeners, and may be found on the New
York vegetable stands as early as January. The
retail price at the first of the season is ten cents
a tuft ; as it becomes more plentiful, it is offered
at five cents.

Placed in the kitchen, it grows luxuriantly, —
in fact, it grows faster than it can be used by a
small family. This very useful herb should be
in the kitchen window of every home where
soups and salads are rightly appreciated.

The chive grows wild in nearly all of the
Middle and Eastern States, and the first green
spot seen in our parks is more than likely to be
chives. Cows eat it, and their milk has a slight
garlic flavor. The garlic flavor in milk is decid-
edly objectionable ; yet the early Dutch settlers
planted the chives in the pastures for the cows
to eat, thereby imparting to the milk this pe-
culiar flavor.

Fillet of Flounder, Tartar Sauce. —
Cut the flesh from the bone lengthwise, and then
cut each piece into strips an inch wide. Dip
them in beaten egg. Roll them in cracker-
crumbs, and fry in hot fat enough to cover them.
This dish appears on our French bills-of-fare as
^/e/ de sole. Serve with sauce tartare.



FRIED TOMCODS. 75

Fried Tomcods. — These delicate, sweet-
flavored pan-fish are called frost-fish by dealers,
but the fishermen along the Hudson call them
''Tommies." Whatever name they are known
by, they are delicious morsels when fresh caught.
Clean them without removing the heads, dry
them in a napkin, and salt their insides, dredge
them with a little flour, and fry them crisp in
hot smoking fat. Put the clean fish into a
baking-tin. Over each fish place a thin slice
of bacon, add salt and pepper, and bake them
twenty minutes in a hot oven.

Broiled Salt Codfish. — Cut half of a
small codfish into medium-sized square pieces ;
split them in two, and soak them over night
in cold water. Drain, and dry them in a napkin,
next morning. Rub a little butter over each
piece, and broil them. Place them on a hot
platter, and pour a litde melted butter over
them.

Drawn butter is sometimes served with this
dish. It should be very "smooth looking, and
have a starchy appearance. Divide three ounces
of butter into litde balls. Dredge them with
flour. Put one- fourth of them into a saucepan,
and when they begin to melt, whisk to a smooth
consistency. Now add one more of the floured
balls, and whisk thoroughly until incorporated



76 BROILED SALT MACKEREL.

with the first. Repeat this process until all are
used. When smooth and thick, stir in a tea-
spoonful of lemon-juice, and, if liked, a httle
chopped parsley.

Broiled Salt Mackerel. — "I like salt
mackerel, but it does not agree with me," is a
remark often heard in nearly all classes of society.
Many imagine they can eat cured fish with the
same degree of recklessness and lack of regard
for dietetic laws which they often show in eat-
ing more digestible food. They soon discover,
however, that something is radically wrong ; just
where the blame rests, is a matter they settle to
their own satisfaction by declaring that salt mack-
erel was not intended for civilized people, be-
cause they are unable to eat it without experien-
cing disagreeable after-effects.

Salt mackerel is really wholesome food, but,
like all cured food, is not so digestible as when
fresh : it is therefore necessary to restore it as
near as possible to its original freshness. This
is done by a thorough soaking in a liberal quan-
tity of fresh water. There is no danger of the
fish becoming too fresh ; if it does, it is an easy
matter to add fresh salt, which is much more
acceptable than condensed brine.

In selecting salt mackerel, examine them care-
fully. If rusty in appearance reject them, " for



FRIED PORGIES WITH SALT PORK. 77

rust in fish, if I am not mistaken, is as bad as
rust in steel or rust in bacon." Large fish are
likely to be poor and coarse ; a medium-sized or
No. 2 is the most profitable provided the white
or under part of the fish is fat. After soaking
thoroughly, rub a little melted butter or olive-oil
over them, and broil not too close to the fire ; do
not cook them enough to dry up all moisture, as
they would then be unpalatable. After broihng,
plunge them into boiling water for a moment to
swell them, — this treatment gives the fish the
appearance of being fat, — place on a hot plate,
add a little melted butter, a dash of pepper, and
finally the juice of half a lemon.

To avoid the unpleasantness referred to, drink
all liquids first, before eating a mouthful of the
fish ; masticate the food thoroughly and slowly,
and the result will be surprising. Those who
eat salt fish alternated with mouthfuls of liquid
must expect the oily particles to rise up, and
create a gastronomic disturbance.

Fried Porgies with Salt Pork. — The
much-abused porgy is one of the sweetest of
pan-fish. Select four good-sized porgies, and
clean them, but do not remove the heads. Cut
into small dice a quarter of a pound of fat salt
pork, fry out the fat, and when it is very hot fry
the fish in it. While they are cooking, broil four



78 FISH CURRIES.

small thin slices of the pork, and serve by placing
them on top of the fish. Pork gives a more
delicate flavor to the fish than bacon.

Fish Curries. — Cold boiled or baked fish
is simply a luxury when warmed up in a delicious
curry sauce. This dish may be served at break-
fast or luncheon. Americans are fast learning
the usefulness of curry-powders \ as yet they de-
mand a mild form of curry, and a little flour is
added to the sauce to tone down the pungency
of the curry.

A Plain Fish Curry. — Fry an onion quite
brown in a little butter or oil, add a teaspoonful
of curry-powder and half a pint of hot water.
Dissolve a teaspoonfiii of flour in a little cold
water ; when free from lumps add it to the sauce,
then strain ) divide the cold fish into flakes, and
warm it up in the sauce.

Curry of Scallops. — Wash a quart of
scallops in cold water, drain, put them in a sauce-
pan, and let them simmer gently one hour.
Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, remove
husks, and fry a delicate brown ; drain from the
hot butter, and pound to a paste with a clove of
garlic, the grated rind of a lemon. Mix two tea-
spoonfuls of curry, a little sauce, and an ounce
of butter, put it in the frying-pan, and add grad-
ually one half-pint of the scallop broth and the



CURRY OF CRAYFISH. 79

almond paste. Now add a pint of hot milk ;
simmer until the Hquid is reduced one-third,
add the scallops, and serve.

Curry of Crayfish. — These maybe pur-
chased by the quart at all seasons. They are
already boiled. Prepare the curry sauce as
above described, add the crayfish, and serve
with rice ; over all squeeze the juice of a sweet
orange.

Curry of Eels, with Rice. — Cut into two-
inch pieces one medium-sized eel or two small
ones ; put them in a saucepan, and cover with
boiling water ; add a little salt, a piece of lemon-
peel, and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; boil slowly
one hour, and drain. Cut up a small onion, and
fry it brown in a little butter ; add a pint of
the water in which the fish was boiled, and a
teaspoonful of walnut catsup. Mix together
a teaspoonful of flour with a gill of cold water,
rub it smooth, and add a teaspoonful of dry curry-
powder. Mix, and add it to the pan, strain, and
return to the pan ; then add the eels ; simmer
fifteen minutes, and serve surrounded by a bor-
der of boiled rice.

Curry of Shad Roe. — Fry half an onion
very brown in a heaping teaspoonful of dripping ;
add a teaspoonful of curry-powder, and a few
moments later add a gill of hot water ; simmer



8o CURRY OF frogs' LEGS.

five minutes, and add a teaspoonful of flour
dissolved in a little water. When it begins to
thicken, strain. While preparing the sauce, boil
two roes in water well salted. When done, place
them on a hot platter, and pour the sauce over
them.

Curry of Frogs' Legs. — This is an excel-
lent dish. Wash one pound of frogs' legs in cold
water ; brown one-fourth of an onion in oil or
butter ; add a teaspoonful of curry and a pint of
hot water ; pour this in a saucepan, and add tlie
frogs ; simmer an hour and a half, and drain.
Mix a teaspoonful each of rice-flour and curry-
to a paste, with the broth ; add salt to taste,
and half a pint of milk. Place on the range, and
when hot add the frogs. Blanch two dozen sweet
almonds ; rub off the skins, split them, and toss
them about in hot butter ; season with pepper
and salt ; when done squeeze a little lemon-juice
over them, and send to table on separate dish
with the curry.

Broiled Weakfish. — When freshly caught,
this is an excellent fish and well flavored ; but
it loses its flavor when kept on ice more than
a day, and the flesh becomes soft and spongy.
In color the weakfish is of a bluish-gray, with
faint speckled back and sides, belly white, the
fins yellow. It is in season from May to Octo-



BAKED WHITEFISH, BORDEAUX SAUCE. 8 1

ber, and is best-flavored in the latest two months
of that time. Select a medium-sized fish for
broiling; see that the flesh is firm, the eyes
bright, and the gills a bright red, and free from a
soft, flabby appearance. Place the well-cleaned
whole fish on the table or fish-board, back
towards you ; make an incision close to the
head, down to the bone ; hold the head firmly
with the left hand, and cut the fish in two length-
wise, keeping the knife close to the bone the
whole length of the fish; remove the bone. (The
bone and head may be boiled a few hours, sea-
soned, and the broth used in fast-day soups.)
Cut each piece of fish in two, crosswise ; rub on
a little sweet oil or melted butter; broil the
outer side first, then the inner side, and serve
with this side upwards on the hot dish ; pour
over the fish well-made drawn butter (which
see).

Baked Whitefish, Bordeaux Sauce. —
Clean and stuff the fish. Put it in a baking-pan,
and add a liberal quantity of butter, previously
rolled in flour, to the fish. Put in the pan half
a pint of claret, and bake for an hour. Remove
the fish, and strain the gravy ; add to the latter
a gill more of claret, a teaspoonful of brown
flour, and a pinch of cayenne, and serve with
the fish.



82 HALIBUT EGG SAUCE.

Halibut, Egg Sauce. — Select a three-
pound piece of wliite halibut, cover it with a
cloth, and place it in a steamer ; set the steamer
over a pot of fast boiling water, and steam two
hours ; place it on a hot dish, surrounded with
a border of parsley ; and serve with egg-sauce,
which is made as follows : —

Egg Sauce. — Cream an ounce of butter;
add to it one tablespoonful of dry flour, a salt-
spoonful of salt, and half a salt spoonful of white
pepper (black pepper spoils its color) . Stir it
briskly, and add half a pint of hot water. Divide
an ounce of butter into Uttle balls, roll them in
flour, and add them one at a time ; stir con-
stantly, and care should be exercised not to
allow the sauce to brown or discolor. Chop
three cold hard-boiled eggs, and add them to
the sauce ; let it heat thoroughly, and serve in a
boat.

Fried Butterfish. — These flat, slate-col-
ored little fish are excellent when quite fresh ;
and as they are easily cleaned, they are recom-
mended to house-keepers. Fry them in tried-
out salt-pork fat, which gives them a very nice
flavor.

Broiled Shad. — The secret of having the
fish juicy, and at the same time properly cooked,
is to rub a little oHve-oil over it before broiling,



BAKED SHAD. S$

and broil it over a fire free from smoke or flame.
Charcoal affords the best fire. The sulphurous
fumes of hard coal injure the flavor of the fish.
When done, have ready a little sweet butter melted
and mixed with salt, white pepper (black pepper
spoils the looks of the fish), half a teaspoonful
of chopped parsley to two ounces of butter, and
the juice of half a lemon. Place the fish on a
hot dish, pour the hot sauce over it, and serve
with hot plates.

Baked Shad. — Broiling is, next to planking,
the best way of cooking this excellent fish ; but
a baked shad is not to be despised. Prepare it
as follows : —

Make a stuffing of soaked bread-crumbs, butter,
pepper, and salt ; place it lengthwise in a pan ;
roll walnuts of butter in flour, and put four to
six of them on top of the fish ; fill the space
around the fish with inch slices of raw potato,
and bake forty minutes. When done, serve pota-
toes and fish together.

Shad Roe a la Poulette. — Cover a pair
of roes with water slightly salted ; add a table-
spoonful of vinegar and a slice of lemon ; simmer
twenty minutes, and drain ; put into a saucepan
an ounce of butter ; when it begins to melt, whisk
it, and add the juice of half a lemon.

Beat up the yolk of one egg with a gill of



$4 BROILED ROYANS.

cream containing half a teaspoonful of flour
rubbed free from lumps ; whisk this gently into
the warm butter; keep it quite warm until it
thickens, but do not boil, or it will curdle. Pour
it over the shad roes, strew over the top a trifle
of chopped parsley, and serve.

Broiled Royans. — These dehcate little fish
are excellent as whet at dinner-parties, and may
be served au naticrel, or broiled, or served on
toast. Procure them from the nearest grocer,
open the can carefully to prevent breaking the
fish, remove the skin, and broil them over a
slow fire ; arrange them on toast, squeeze a Uttie
lemon-juice over them, and serve.

Broiled Sardines. — When neatly prepared,
this forms an excellent breakfast or luncheon
dish.

Remove the sardines from the can without
breaking them ; scrape off the skin, place them
between double wire broilers, and broil to a
delicate brown ; arrange neatly in a hot dish,
squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and serve.
Orange-juice is very nice with the above dish.

Broiled Smelts, Sauce Tartare. — Thor-
oughly clean half a dozen smelts, spHt them in
two, place them on a double wire broiler, and
broil. Send to table with sauce tartare, which
is made as follows : Chop together a few sprigs



SMELT FRIED, SAUCE TARTARE. 85

of parsley, six capers, one small pickle, a piece of
onion as large as a bean. Add these to half a
pint of mayonnaise, mix, and add a teaspoonful
of French mustard, mix again, and serve.

Smelts Fried, Sauce Tartare. — Clean
six small smelts, leave on the heads, dip them in
beaten egg, roll them in fine cracker-dust,
and fry in very hot fat. Serve with sauce
tartare.

Broiled Whitefish. — The whitefish is one
of the best of summer fish, but does not stand
long transportation very well. See that the flesh
is firm, and free from flabbiness. Cut the fish
in two lengthwise, remove the backbone, divide
each piece in two ; brush over it a little sweet
butter or olive-oil, and broil over a moderate fire
for ten minutes. Place it in a hot dish, squeeze
the juice of a lemon over it, add salt and pepper
and a tablespoonful of melted butter. Garnish
with tufts of parsley and thin slices of lemon,
and serve.

Sheeps-head with Drawn Butter. — The
Englishman who wrote the extraordinary state-
ment that sheeps-head sometimes sold for " four
or five pounds sterhng in New York" may be
pleased to learn that the price for this excellent
fish is fifteen to eighteen cents per pound on an
average, and that the best mode of preparing it



86 DRAWN BUTTER.

for table is to boil or steam it, although broiled
sheeps-head is very good.

Procure a medium-sized fish, clean it thor-
oughly, and rub a little salt over it ; wrap it in a
cloth, and put it in a steamer ; place this over
a pot of fast boiling water, and steam one hour ;
then lay it whole upon a hot side-dish, garnish
with tufts of parsley and slices of lemon, and
serve with drawn butter prepared as follows : —

Drawn Butter. — Take four ounces of
butter, and roll it into small balls ; dredge these
with flour ; put one-fourth of them in a sauce-
pan, and as they begin to melt whisk them ; add
the remainder, one at a time, until thoroughly
smooth ; while stirring add a tablespoonful of
lemon-juice and half a teaspoonful of chopped
parsley ; pour into a hot sauce-boat, and serve.

Broiled Sheeps-head. — Split the fish in
two lengthwise, and remove the head and bone,
brush over the fish a liberal quantity of melted
butter or oil, then broil over a fire free from
flame or smoke. When done, squeeze the juice
of a lemon over the fish, then add salt, pepper,
and a pat of the choicest table butter.
