
INTRODUCTORY.



Would it not be beneficial, were the average
American to substitute fish for the everlasting
steak and chop of the breakfast-table?

For the sake of variety, if for no other rea-
son, we should eat more fish ; and it need not
always be fried or broiled. A well-made fish
stew or a curry should be acceptable to the
majority of us, and undoubtedly would be if
appetizingly prepared.

This little work does not by any means pro-
pose to exhaust the subject of sea-food, for the
subject is almost inexhaustible ; but it places
v/ithin the reach of all a series of recipes and
suggestions extremely valuable to the average
housewife.

THE OYSTER.

The Oyster Season opens in the city of
New York on the first day of September, and
closes on the last day of April in each year.



12 OYSTERS OUT OF SEASON.

The annual amount of business done in the
oyster trade is close on to $5,000,000. Each
successive year witnesses an increase in the
business.

Notwithstanding the R canon, there are thou-
sands of persons who eat oysters at the sum-
mer resorts along the seashore throughout hot
weather.

Oysters out of Season. — The writer
does not recommend the eating of oysters out
of their season, no matter how fresh they may
be, or how appetizing they may appear.

To supply the demands made upon them by
summer resorts, oyster-planters shift the oysters,
during the spawning season, from warm shallow
water to cold deep water. This checks or pre-
vents the oysters from spawning, and to all
appearance they are edible ; but the writer
firmly believes that interfering with the laws
of nature affects the health of the oyster, and
they cannot be as wholesome as planters would
have us believe.

Oysters Preserved in Shell. — So long
as the oyster retains its natural juices, it will
live out of water, provided the changes in the
temperature are not too sudden. The moment
the oyster opens its shells, however, the juices
run out, and in a short time afterward the oyster



OYSTERS PRESERVED IN SHELL. 1 3

diel To prevent the oyster opening its stony
overcoat, is the object of oyster-shippers; and
the Patent Office bears witness to their many
devices having this object in view. Some wire
the shells, others clasp or envelope the broad
end of the shells with tin or other metal. No
doubt these devices aid in keeping the oyster
alive and fresh a little longer. Whether the
nervous system of the oyster is affected by the
process, is a question. Scientists tell us that
oysters possess organs of sensation, and all
who have handled oysters learn in time that
a sudden jar or shock will kill them. The jar
of the machinery of a steamboat will some-
times kill an oyster. When shipped to Europe
they are ordered to be stored as far away from
the machinery as possible. Some authorities
claim that the oyster can hear. One cannot
noisily approach an oyster-bed at feeding time
v^ithout their hearing, and instantly every shell
is closed. A cloud or a boat passing over an
oyster-bank will cause every shell to close with
proverbial tightness, and the sound of thunder
will often kill them while they are in transit, —
conclusive evidence that the nervous system
in an oyster, while not highly developed, is of
sufficient importance to merit attention from
those who roughly handle oysters.



14 THE FOOD OF THE OYSTER.

The Food of the Oyster consists of
minute animal and vegetable organisms and
small particles of organized matter. Ordinary
sea-water contains an abundance of this sort
of food, which is drawn into the gills with the
water. As the water strains through the pores
into the water tubes, the food particles are
caught on the surface of the gills by a layer of
adhesive slime. As soon as they are entangled,
the microscopic hair-like projections on the
gills strike against them in such a way as to
slide them along the gills toward the mouth.
When they reach the anterior ends of the gills,
they are pushed off, and fall between the lips,
which are also covered with thin hair-like pro-
jections, which carry the particles forward un-
til they slide into the mouth. No wonder the
intelligent tramp wished that he might become
an oyster. His food would then come to him
in a sort of endless progression.

Formation of the Deep Shell. — Al-
though the oyster lies upon the bottom with
one shell above and one below, the shells are
not upon the top and bottom of the body,
but upon the right and left sides. The two
shells are symmetrical in the young oyster ; but
after it becomes attached, the lower or attached
side grows faster than the other, and becomes



COCK OYSTERS. 1 5

deep and spoon-shaped, while the free valve
remains nearly flat. In nearly every case the
lower or deep valve is the left.

Cock Oysters. — There is a belief among
oyster- eaters, that the dark-gray or black oys-
ters are male oysters, and are therefore superior
to the female oyster. Such misinformation was
evidently promulgated by oyster-openers in anti-
cipation of a tip for serving selected oysters.
There is no truth in the assertion, however, for
there are just as many black female oysters as
there are black male oysters. There is no char-
acteristic color by which a male or cock oyster
can be distinguished from a female oyster.
Microscopic examination, or a scientific eye, is
the means of discovering the sex of an oyster.

The black-oyster romance is of ancient ori-
gin. The Roman oyster-smashers successfully
"worked it" on Pliny, Horace, and other
ancient writers and epicures.

Green Oysters. — At least a million dollars
worth of oysters are annually destroyed in New-
York waters by sludge acid from the oil refin-
eries and illegal dumpings. The acid kills the
oysters the instant it touches them, and turns
them green. There is very little danger that a
poisoned oyster will reach the consumer, but the
loss to the planter is enormous.



1 6 BANQUET OYSTERS.

The green tint of the oyster, or in fact any
distinguished color the oyster may possess, is due
to the color of its food and to the nature of the
surrounding bottom. The bottom of the Shrews-
bury River is mud ; the oysters take on a pecu-
liar tawny color from their muddy bed. Rock-
away oysters exist on a hard sandy bottom. If
the beds are covered with sea-lettuce, as they
often are, the oysters take on a delicate green
tint. When the lettuce is removed by a strong
tide or high wind, the oysters gradually assume
their white, slightly grayish color. Their shells
are round, thin, and brittle. The shells from
mud bottoms are long, narrow, thick, and
spongy. Intruded mud is enclosed by a thin
layer of pearly shell.

The oyster epicure may rest assured of one
fact. No matter what the color of an oyster may
be, so long as it is alive and seasonable it is
wholesome. It cannot absorb enough foreign
matter to injure the epicure without committing
suicide, and there is no possible danger of any
one swallowing a dead oyster.

Banquet Oysters. — As served at the aver-
age public banquet, the raw oyster is a thing of
terror to appetite and to weak digestive organs.
When looking for one's seat, where, through an
oversidit, one is not furnished with a chart of



ORDERING OYSTERS FOR THE TABLE. 1 7

the tables, one beholds six very small emaciated
oysters. The heat in the room has absorbed
their moisture, afterwards the bed of fine ice on
which they were placed has melted, and the
water overflowed them, thereby finishing the work
of destruction. One must be under the influence
of the sherry and Vermouth of the reception-
rooms, to be willing to begin the feast with such
an introductory course. No wonder fashionable
society demands a substitute for the oyster as
the dinner season progresses. In the name
of humanity, order the oysters to table and
announce the dinner at the same time. Guests
are willing to wait a few moments for toothsome
oysters, provided they are direct from the ice-
box.

Ordering Oysters for the Family-
Table. — Send the servant to the nearest
dealer, a few minutes before the oysters are
wanted, and let her wait for them. In this way
one is quite sure of procuring freshly opened
oysters. Many* dealers begin opening oysters
for their family orders hours before they are
to be served ; and the result is, they have lost
much of their juices before being served.

Miss Parloa's " New Cook Book " says, " Six
large oysters are usually allowed each person."
This error should be corrected in future editions.



1 8 HOW OYSTERS SHOULD BE OPENED.

Large raw oysters on the half-shell are only
served at oyster-counters to countrymen, and
are not served at a dinner, no matter how un-
pretentious or how elaborate the affair may be.

How Oysters should be opened. —
In the author's work on " Luncheon," reference
is made to the great care which should be
exercised in opening oysters ; and it will bear
repeating. Reject all oysters opened by the
" smashing " process. The shells are not only
broken and ragged, but, should a person swallow
a ragged sphnter of oyster-shell, there is great
danger of its killing him. Insist on it that
your oysters are opened by the so-called " stab-
bing " process.

How^ to serve Raw Oysters. — If for
a quiet family affair, where " opened " oysters
are used, keep the plates in ice-water, and dry
them before placing the oysters on them. For
more pretentious affairs, but where fancy oyster-
plates are not a part of the dinner service, use
soup-plates. Fill them with fine cracked ice,
place a dainty doily_ over each, and set the
oysters on top of the doily. The lemon should
be served on a side-dish, and not in the centre
of the dish as though one were dining in a res-
taurant. Four small Rockaways are sufficient
to serve at the ordmary course dinner. In nine



COLLATION SERVICE. 1 9

cases are out of ten, Rockaways are served in-
stead of the Blue Points. It is therefore advisable
to order the former ; the dealer might make a mis-
take if he had them in stock, and send the latter.

It is quite English to serve raw oysters on the
flat half-shell, but it is quite American to serve
them on the deep shell. The American way is
the best.

Collation Service. — At evening collations,
the oysters are served in the centre of a block of
ice. A clear, square block of ice is selected, and
a cavity or receptacle is made in it by the aid of
a hot flat-iron held close to the ice. If one has
patience, the cavity may be shaved out with an
ice shave ; if a pick is used, one is Hkely to
split the cake of ice. An ice boat is easily
formed by holding a hot flat-iron to a long piece
of ice. Holes may be made through the bot-
tom of the block of ice, and filled with brilliant
flowers ; and the outer sides and top should be
handsomely decorated with flowers and smilax.
If electric lights are used in the house, it is an
easy matter to place them in the cake of ice :
the effect is striking. The wires are carried from
the room below the dining-room, or under the
carpet.

How to eat a Raw Oyster. — Avoid as
much as possible the use of condiments, when



20 A BARREL OF OYSTERS.

eating oysters. They were never intended as
an accompaniment of tlie oyster, and are only
used by country people. A suspicion of lemon ;
a dash of salt when the dealer has kept them
covered with cracked ice, and the descending
ice-water washed out all sea flavor; and, for
palates grown callous, a dash of cayenne. Such
abominations as ketchup, Worcestershire sauce,
etc., should never be used. Do not bolt the
oyster, but masticate it ; and one will soon learn
to tell the different oysters by their different
flavors. By bolting them, one will never know
how to thoroughly appreciate them.

A Barrel of Oysters. — Persons living
away from the city are advised to purchase
oysters by the barrel. If kept with the deep
shell down, and in a cool place, they will live a
long time. The novice is likely to bruise fingers
in vain attempts to open them ; but, like carving,
the opening of oysters should be part of a
man's education. Then there is the charm of
roasting the oysters in the old-fashioned fire-
place. Here the novice may burn a finger or
two, but then it's fun for the youngsters.

Read this ! — In W. Mattieu Williams's
" Chemistry of Cookery," I find the following :
" More than half a century has elapsed since
Dr. Beaumont published the results of his ex-



STEWED OYSTERS. 21

periments on Alexis St. Martin. Tliese showed
that fresh raw oysters required two hours and
fifty- five minutes to digest, and stewed fresh
oysters three and a half hours for digestion ;
against one hour for boiled tripe, and three
hours for roast or boiled beef or mutton."

The general impression among the people is,
that raw oysters digest almost as soon as they
become of the same temperature of the stomach.



COOKED OYSTERS.

Stewed Oysters. — Boil half a pint of
milk ; add to it eleven good-sized oysters, a
walnut of butter, a dash of salt and of pepper.
Allow the milk to boil up just once, and
serve.

The average cook puts the oysters on first,
and after they boil cold milk is added. When
the milk boils, the stew is served. The result
of such treatment of the oyster causes it to
shrivel so that it is hardly recognizable, and a
good-sized oyster becomes a mere sprat. From
this process of cooking originated the ancient
moth-eaten jokes about church-fair stev/s.

Cooked as in the foregoing recipe, the oyster
retains its plump characteristics.



2 2 PHILADELPHIA FRIED OYSTERS.

Philadelphia Fried Oysters. — The au-
thor originally published this recipe in the New
York " Evening Sun " by request.

The average New Yorker may call the City of
Brotherly Love a sleepy sort of a place, but it
is wide enough awake gastronomically. It has
within its city limits cooks v/ho prepare fried
oysters that fairly melt in one's mouth. They
are so deUcate that there is not a pang of dys-
pepsia in a whole winter's supply of the tooth-
some dainties; The reputation of Finneli's
Philadelphia fried oysters extends from Maine
to California ; and immense sums have been
offered for the recipe, but its owner would not
sell his secret at any price.

Beat up three eggs thoroughly ; add half a
pint of oyster-juice, a pepper-spoonful of cay-
enne, a saltspoonful of black pepper, a table-
spoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of English
mustard. Work the mixture to a batter, and
gradually add a gill of oil. Now comes the
more particular part of the formula. Cover a
board or part of a table with a layer of cracker-
crumbs half an mch deep. Drain fifty oysters
free from liquid, place them on the cracker-
crumbs, and dredge over them more cracker-
crumbs. See to it that one oyster is not on top
of another. Pick up each oyster by its beard.



PHILADELPHIA FRIED OYSTERS. 23

and dip it in the batter. Have ready a quan-
tity of bread-crumbs grated from the white part
of stale bread ; spread this out on the table, and
after the oysters have been dipped in the batter
lay them carefully on the bread-crumbs two
inches apart. After they are all spread out, turn
them over neatly, which will bread-crumb the
other side. Dip them in the batter again by
taking hold of the beard, and again spread them
out on the bread-crumbs. Under no circum-
stances place one oyster on top of another, or
in any way press them together ; this would
make them heavy. When the fat is so hot that
the smoke from it would light a match, then fry
them by again taking hold of the beard, one at
a time, and dropping them into the fat. When
they are dark brown, take them up, and strew
over them a quantity of salt.

The secret is in carefully handling the oyster
after it has been breaded. How differently
New York restaurants serve fried oysters ! In
almost every eating place in the city, one sees
piles of oysters covered with a batter that plainly
shows the cook purposely pressed them between
his hands. When served they look more like
liver-pads than human food. Nothing short of a
human ostrich could possibly digest them. The
Philadelphia oyster, however, is a culinary poem.



24 CURRY OF OYSTERS.

Curry of Oysters. — Put an ounce of but-
ter in a pan ; add to it a teaspoon of curry-pow-
der, and water enough to prevent burning. Put
fifteen oysters in just water enough to cover
them, simmer three minutes, and drain ; thicken
the broth with a teaspoonful of flour, salt to
taste, stir this into the curry ; add the oysters,
simmer a moment, and serve with boiled rice.

Pickled -Oyster Omelet. — Rinse six
spiced or pickled oysters in cold water. Divide
an ounce of butter into little balls, and roll them
in flour ; put them in a saucepan, heat gradu-
ally, and whisk to a cream ; add a gill of hot
water, salt and pepper. Cut the oysters in two,
and add to the butter. Prepare an omelet in
the usual manner ; before folding, add the oys-
ters ; turn out on a hot dish, and serve.

Deviled Oysters on Toast. — Mix to-
gether a heaping saltspoonful of mustard flour,
half a saltspoonful each of white pepper and
salt, and the yolk of one egg. Dip six oysters
in the paste, then in fine crumbs, and broil over
a moderate fire. When done, arrange on toast,
and squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon.

Pickled Oysters. — A few pickled oysters
may be served instead of clams during v/arm
weather. Scald a quart of oysters a moment,
drain, and put them in jars. To a pint of oyster



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 25

liquor, add half a pint of hot water and half a
pint of hot vinegar ; pour over the oysters ; add
three cloves, four whole peppers, a small bit of
mace, and a slice of lemon, to each jar. This
will be sufficient for two ordinary fruit-jars.

Scalloped Oysters. — Put in the bottom
of a yellow dish two ounces of sweet butter,
divided into little pieces. Add a layer of raw
oysters, and cover them with cracker-dust or
bread-crumbs, and add salt and pepper to taste ;
another layer of oysters, and so on until the dish
is full, the last or top layer to be crumbs, and
between each layer there should be a small
amount of butter. Moisten the ingredients with
a liberal quantity of oyster Hquid, put small but-
ter balls on top of the dish, and bake a delicate
brown color. Oysters were formerly baked in
a scalloped or shell-shaped dish, hence the
name.

Oyster Salad. — Boil two dozen small oys-
ters for five minutes in water enough to cover
them ; add a httle salt and a tablespoonful of
vinegar ; drain and cool. Put into a salad-bowl
the centre leaves of two heads of cabbage let-
tuce, add the oysters whole, pour over them a
mayonnaise ; garnish with oyster-crabs, hard-
boiled eggs, and, if liked, a few anchovies cut
into fillets.



26 PLAIN FRIED OYSTERS.

Plain Fried Oysters. — As a rule, fried
oysters are not served as a breakfast dish, owing
to the coating with which they are usually sur-
rounded. Served plain, however, they are quite
acceptable. Dry them well in a napkin, and
roll them in a little flour to insure that they are
quite dry, then cook them in a very little hot
dripping.

Miss Parloa's " New Cook- Book " says, " a
quart of oysters is enough for a party of ten "
(p. ii8). There are from twenty to twenty-five
oysters in a quart, rarely more than this.

Oyster Toast. — Select fifteen plump oys-
ters ; chop them fine, and add salt, pepper, and
a suspicion of nutmeg. Beat up the yolks of
two eggs with a gill of cream ; whisk this into the
simmering oysters. When set, pour the whole
over slices of buttered toast.

Oyster Omelet. — Stew six oysters in their
own liquor for five minutes ; remove the oysters,
and thicken the liquid with a walnut of butter
rolled in flour; season with salt and cayenne;
whisk this to a cream. Chop the oysters, and
add them to the sauce ; simmer until the sauce
thickens. Beat up four eggs lightly, and add a
tablespoonful of cream ; turn out into a hot pan,
and fry a light gold-color. Before folding the
omelet entirely, place the oysters with part of



OYSTERS BROILED. 27

the sauce within, and turn it over on a hot dish.
The remainder of the sauce should be poured
round it.

Oysters Broiled. — Rub the bars of a wire
broiler with a little sweet butter ; dry twelve
large, plump oysters in a napkin, and place them
on the broiler ; brush a little butter over them,
and broil over a fire free from flame and smoke.
When done on both sides, arrange them neatly
on toast; pour a Httle well-seasoned melted
butter over them, and serve.

Do not bread-crumb oysters intend for
broiling.

Tripe with Oysters. — Tripe, when prop-
erly prepared by a simple process, is very nutri-
tious and easily digested.

Cut up half a pound of well-washed tripe ;
simmer for three-quarters of an hour in water
slightly salted ; take out the tripe ; add to the
broth a little butter rolled in flour, salt and pep-
per ; add a little more flour if not thick enough.
Return the tripe and a dozen oysters ; simmer
for a few minutes longer, and serve.

Oysters en Brochette. — Select one dozen
choice oysters ; plunge them into hot water a
second to make them firm (this process is called
blanching), then drain, and dip them into melted
butter ; arrange them on skewers with alternate



28 FRIED OYSl'ERS.

layers of neatly sliced bacon ; broil over a moder-
ate fire. When done, add maitre-d'hotel butter
to them, and serve on the skewers.

Fried Oysters. — Beat up the yolks of four
eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and
season them with a teaspoonful of salt and a
saltspoonful of cayenne pepper ; beat up thor-
oughly. Dry twelve fat oysters on a napkin ; dip
them in the egg batter, then in cracker-dust ;
shake off the loose cracker-dust, dip them again
in the egg batter, and lastly roll them in fine
bread-cru7iibs. Fry in very hot fat, using fat
enough to cover them. The oil gives them a
nice flavor.

Oyster and Canned Salmon Pie. — One
pound of best canned salmon, one pint of solid
oysters, half a pint of oyster liquid ; cover the
bottom of the dish with neat pieces of the sal-
mon, season with salt and pepper and an ounce
of butter rolled in flour, add a few oysters, and
so on until the ingredients are used. Pour
in the liquid of both, and cover the top with
paste. Bake in a moderate oven. There should
be liquid enough to have the ingredients moist
when served.

Oyster Patties. — Roll out a pound of hght
puff-paste, half an inch in thickness ; cut it
into rounds with a cake- cutter two inches in



OYSTERS A LA POULETTE. 29

diameter; press a small cutter one inch in
diameter, on each round, one-fourth of an inch
deep. Place them on a buttered tin, brush a
little beaten egg over them, and bake in a quick
oven. When done, remove the centre and a
little of the inside. Scald (or, as it is called,
blanch) three dozen oysters ; drain. Put into
a saucepan two ounces of butter, whisk it to a
cream ; add a teaspoonful of flour, stir free from
lumps ; add a heaping saltspoonful of salt, and
a pepperspoonful of white pepper ; whisk into it
half a pint each of hot cream and the oyster
liquor ; allow it to simmer a few minutes and to
thicken ; then add the oysters and a " squeeze "
of lemon-juice ; when hot fill the shells, and
serve. If nutmeg is not objected to, a little may
be used.

Oysters a la Poulette. — Blanch (scald)
a dozen oysters in their own liquor ; drain th&amp;m,
and add to the liquor, salt, half an ounce of
butter, the juice of half a lemon, a gill of cream,
and a teaspoonful of dissolved flour. Beat the
yolk of one egg, and add to the sauce. Stir until
the sauce thickens ; place the oysters on a hot
dish, pour the sauce over them, add a very little
chopped parsley, and serve.

Pie of Oysters and Scallops. — Take
one pint of fresh scallops, and wash them in cold



30 STEAMED OYSTERS.

water ; drain, and dry them in a napkin. Cut a
few slices of fat bacon in strips small enough to
insert the ends in a larding-needle ; lard the
scallops with them, and dredge them slightly
with flour. Select one quart of fat oysters ; line
a baking-dish with puff-paste ; add the scallops
and oysters in layers ; season v/ith salt, pepper,
and a dash of mace. Divide an ounce of butter
into little balls, roll them in flour, and put them
between the layers ; add the oyster liquor.
Cover with a top crust ; bake forty minutes in
a moderate oven.

Steamed Oysters. — Wash and scrub the
shells thoroughly, and rinse them off in cold
water. Put them in a steamer, large or deep
shell doivn. Put the steamer on top of a pot
of boiling water ; steam about six minutes, or
until the shells separate. Have ready a hot dish
containing melted butter seasoned with a dash
of Worcestershire, lemon-juice, salt and cayenne.
Remove them from the steamer with gloved
hands, and pick out the oysters with a flat
knife, saving all the juice possible. Dip the
oysters in the butter as you open them, and
the number one can eat is surprising.

To serve Steamed Oysters. — Steam
them as in the foregoing recipe. At each guest's
place at table have ready httle saucers containmg



ROAST OYSTERS. 3 1

a quantity of the hot melted butter. Remove
the fiat shell, and serve the oyster in the lower
shell ; send about six oysters to each guest at a
time.

Roast Oysters. — Clean the shells thor-
oughly, and place them on the coals in an open
fire-place, or remove the top of range, and put
them on the live coals, until they snap open,
which they will soon do. Care must be exer-
cised not to burn fingers.

At evening, young folks like the fun of roasting
oysters in the furnace below stairs, and eating
them from the shell as fast as the host can open
them.

Baked Oysters. — Clean the shells thor-
oughly, and fill a dripping-pan with them, deep
shell down. Look at them after ten minutes.
If the shells are all opened, they are cooked
enough. Melted butter, nicely seasoned, is the
only sauce to serve with them.



CLAMS.



Little-Neck Clams. — From the first of
September until the first of May in the following
year, the clam — which is richer in nutrition
than the oyster — is as meek and as gentle as a



32 SOFT CLAMS IN CHAFING-DISH.

clam can be. Yet it submits to all sorts of
indignities from the oyster, and has never been
known to talk back during the period men-
tioned. After the first of May, however, its
manner changes, and it assumes metropolitan
airs. It lords it over the oyster as a bantam
struts around a helpless foe ; and it plainly
intimates to the oyster that moving-day was
invented to celebrate its departure.

After May i, the clam must be recognized as
the avaiit-coureur of all dainty feasts. No sum-
mer dinner or supper of any pretensions is con-
sidered complete without the small clam. All
the small clams in market are supposed to
come from Little Neck, Long Island. Not one-
quarter of the supply comes from this locality.

Soft Clams in Chafing-Dish. — Select a
dozen large Guilford clams, wash them thor-
oughly, and plunge them into boiling water for
a moment. Drain and open them, and use the
round plump part only. Put in a chafing-dish
a pat of butter, and when quite hot add a dash
of flour, and cayenne to suit the taste ; add the
clams, and when they are slightly cooked add
a gill of light sherry. Cover the dish, and allow
it to simmer five minutes. Have ready three
slices of toast, put four clams upon each slice,
add a little of the hot sherry, and serve.



STEWED LITTLE-NECK CLAMS. 33

Stewed Little-Neck Clams.— Get two

dozen freshly opened, very small clams. Boil a
pint of milk, a dash of white pepper, and a small
pat of butter. Now add the clams. Let them
come to a boil, and serve. Longer boiling will
make the clams almost indigestible.

Soft Clams. — Select a dozen soft-shell
clams ; wash them well ; remove the shells ;
trim off the tough neck ; place each clam on a
half-shell, and add to each half a teaspoonful of
finely-chopped bacon, a Httle cayenne, a very
small bit of onion, and a pat of butter rolled in
flour ; strew over the top a little grated Parmesan
cheese, and bake to a delicate brown. Cracker-
crumbs may be used instead of the cheese if
preferred.

Soft-Shell Clams, Scalloped. — Purchase
a dozen large soft clams in the shell, and three
dozen opened clams. Ask the dealer to open
the first dozen, care being used not to injure
the shells, which are to be used in cooking the
clams. Clean the shells well, and put two soft
clams on each half-shell ; add to each a dash
of white pepper and half a teaspoonful of
minced celery. Cut a shce of fat bacon into
the smallest dice, add four of these to each
shell, strew over the top a thin layer of cracker-
dust, place a pat of table butter on top, and



34 CLAM TOAST.

bake in the oven until brown. They are de-
lightful when properly prepared.

Clam Toast. — Chop up two dozen small
clams into fine pieces ; simmer for thirty min-
utes in hot water enough to cover them. Beat
up the yolks of two eggs ; add a little cayenne
and a gill of warmed milk ; dissolve half a tea-
spoonful of flour in a little cold milk ; simmer
all together ; pour over buttered toast, and
serve.

Clam Broth. — Procure three dozen Little-
Neck clams in the shell ; wash them well in cold
water ; put them in a saucepan, cover with a
quart of hot water ; boil fifteen minutes ; drain ;
remove the shells ; chop up the clams, and add
them to the hot broth with a pat of butter ; salt
if necessary, and add a little cayenne ; boil ten
minutes, pour into a soup-tureen, add a slice
of toast, and send to table. This is the mode
adopted when we do not have a clam-opener
in the house.

Raw, freshly opened clams should be chopped
fine and prepared in the manner above described.
The large clams are better for chowders than
for stews and broth.

Clam Fritters. — Chop medium fine
twenty-five large quahaugs, or seventy-five Little
Necks. To a pint of flour add the beaten yolks



FRIED SOFT CLAMS. 35

of three eggs, half a teaspoon ful of salt, a tea-
spoonful of lemon-juice, a dash of cayenne, and
an ounce of melted butter. Mix well, and make
a batter by adding about a gill of milk. Add the
clams, and if the batter is too thick add a little
of the clam broth. To make them light, beat
the mixture well ; drop spoonfuls in hot fat, and
fry brown, as you would doughnuts.

Fried Soft Clams. — Select half a dozen
of large Guilford clams. Remove the shells, and
trim off the dark tough parts. Cut into dice a
quarter of a pound of salt pork, and fry it. In
the pork-fat fry the clams, but first dredge them
with flour. Serve with a slice of broiled or
fried fat pork.
