
CRABS.

Hard-shell Crabs. — The common blue
crab is the species of the crab family which
we are most familiar with. We remember how
rapidly they darted away from us when we
pointed the net towards them, when on our
summer vacation. We also have vivid recollec-
tions of their anxiety to shake hands with us
when in captivity.

Hard crabs are to be had during almost the
entire season, and the average price asked for



36 CRAB PATTIES, CREAM SAUCE.

them is ^3.00 per hundred. Those found in
market in winter were raked out of the mud,
where they had buried themselves until the
advent of warm weather.

Select a dozen hard crabs, and rinse them
well in fresli water. Have ready a kettle two-
thirds full of boiling water, slightly ' salted ;
plunge them into it, and boil them for about
twelve minutes ; drain, and when cool put them
in the ice-box to become cold.

After the theatre, return home for supper,
instead of patronizing the restaurant, and serve
the crabs with sandwiches of buttered bread. A
light sauterne may be served with them, if not
objected to.

Crab Patties, Cream Sauce. — Roll out
a pound of light puff-paste, half an. inch in
thickness. Cut it into rounds with a cake-cutter
two inches in diameter. Press a small cutter
one inch in diameter, on each round, one-fourth
of an inch deep. Place them on a buttered tin,
brush a httle beaten egg over them, and bake
in a quick oven. When done, remove the
centre, and a little of the inside.

Put into a saucepan half an ounce of butter,
half an onion minced, half a pound of minced
raw veal, and a small carrot shredded. Toss
about for two or three minutes to fry, but not



SOFT-SHELL CRABS. 37

to color ; then add two tablespoonfuls of flour.
Mix it well with the other ingredients, and add
three pints of hot water, a pint of boihng cream,
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful
of white pepper. Simmer one hour, and strain
into a saucepan. Add to each pint of it half a
gill of warm cream. Place back on range again,
and simmer until reduced enough to coat the
spoon, then strain into a crock, and whisk until
it is cold. This is done to prevent the forma-
tion of a thick top. At this season of the year
this is an excellent sauce to have on hand for
patties, white fish sauces, and also for meat
sauces. When wanted for patties, melt an
ounce of butter. While whisking it, gradually
add a pint of the sauce. Mix it with a quart
of prepared crab-meat, obtainable at the grocer's.
When hot, fill the shells with it.

Soft-shell Crabs. — When the blue crab
is desirous of increasing his growth, he sheds
his shell, and for a short period is perfectly
helpless. The male usually retires to a secluded
spot out of the reach of eels and other enemies,
but the female soft shell is protected by a male
companion v/hose shell is hard. At Sheepshead
Bay these are called elopers or double crabs.
As the tide changes, the soft shell begins to
harden, when it is called " paper-shell," shedder,



38 THE CARE OF SOFT CRABS.

or feeler. Before reaching its normal condition,
the crab is called a buckler, and is only used as
bait.

The Care of Soft Crabs. — Soft crabs
require delicate handling and much care. They
deteriorate rapidly after leaving the water, and
are often killed in transit by the sudden jarring
of the train. If a little care is exercised, they
may be kept alive from six to ten days. First
select vigorous crabs, remove them from the
crate, and give them a bath in water slightly
salted. Clean the crate thoroughly, renew or
wash the seaweed which accompanies them.
Strew over the bottom of the crate a layer of
the seaweed, and place the crabs in the crate
in layers, faces upward with side spines touch-
ing each other, and alternated with layers of
seaweed. When the crate is full, cover it with
more seaweed, sprinkle salt water over all, and
set the crate in a dark, cool place. Sprinkle
salt water over them from day to day, and re-
new the bath and fresh sea- tangle about every
other day. Treated this way, they will keep
in the hottest weather. One of the principal
objects in covering them with seaweed is to
keep the hght from them. Sudden flashes of
lightning, if seen by them, would frighten them
to death. Their sensitive organization cannot



CRABS, SOFI^-SHELL. 39

even stand the rumbling of thunder, and they
should be stored away where they cannot hear
it distinctly. The only care required in clean-
ing them for the table is to remove the feathery
gill-like formations under the side spines, and
the sand-pouch. Soft crabs are too delicate
morsels to cover with batter.

Crabs, Soft-shell. — These should be
cooked as soon as possible after being caught,
as their flavor rapidly deteriorates after being
exposed to the air. Select crabs as lively as pos-
sible ; remove the feathery substance under the
pointed sides of the shells ; rinse them in cold
water ; drain ; season with salt and pepper ;
dredge them in flour, and fry in hot fat.

Many serve them rolled in eggs and cracker-
dust ; but thus they are not as good.

Crab Croquettes. — Take one pound of
crab-meat ; gently press out the juice, and put
it in a bowl with a tablespoonful of fine crumbs,
half a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of
pepper, a dash of anchovy essence, the yolks
of two eggs, and a very little cold water. If the
eggs are not enough to make it the proper con-
sistency, bind the ingredients together, and place
on ice until wanted ; then work into corks or
cone-shaped forms, dip them in beaten egg, then
in crumbs, and fry in hot fat.



40 CRAB PATTIES, A LA BECHAMEL.

Crab Patties, a la Bechamel. — Prepare
the shells the same as for oyster patties (which
see). Put into a saucepan half an ounce of
butter, half a medium-sized onion minced, half
a pound of minced raw veal, one small carrot
shredded ; toss about for two minutes to fry, but
not to color ; add two tablespoonfuls of flour,
stir it about with the vegetables ; then add three
pints of hot water, or if convenient use hot soup-
stock instead ; add a pint of boiling cream.
Season with half a teaspoonful of salt and a salt-
spoonful of white pepper. Simmer one hour,
and strain into a saucepan. Add to each pint
of sauce half a wineglassful of cream. Simmer
until reduced enough to coat a spoon ; strain it
again into a crock, and whisk it until cold, to
prevent a thick top from forming. When wanted
for patties, or any thing else, boil one pint of it
with an ounce of butter, whisking it thoroughly.
Prepare a quart of solid crab-meat, either picked
from the shells or purchased already prepared ;
add it to a pint of the sauce ; strew in a few
shredded mushrooms : fill the crab-shells with
this, and serve. On fast-days, omit veal and
stock from meats, and use milk instead.

[This very excellent sauce was named after
the Marquis de Bechamel, a worthless court-
lounger and steward under Louis XIV. Why his



CRABS, A l'aMERICAINE. 4 1

unsavory memory has been perpetuated by a gas-
tronomic monument of worth, is one of those
inexphcable historical facts that students of the
art of cookery are continually stumbling upon.
The close observer will not fail, however, to
discover that nearly all dishes named after old
French celebrities were stolen bodily from old
Venetian and Provencal books of cookery, and
were re-baptized after some of the most notorious
profligates of the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries. Many of these old cook-books, like
** Opusculum de Obsoniis de Honesta Voluptate,"
a volume printed at Venice, 1475 (^^^^ ^^"st
cookery-book pubhshed), and others, contain
recipes almost identical with French cookery
of the past few centuries.]

Crabs, a rAm6ricaine. — Pick out the
meat from the shells of four dozen boiled hard-
shell crabs ; squeeze out the water gently ; put
the meat in a bowl, and add the yolks of two raw
eggs, salt, cayenne, and a very little chopped
parsley, and two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs ;
roll the mixture into small balls or cakes ; dip
in egg batter, roll in cracker-crumbs, and fry to
a delicate brown. They may be served plain
or with tomato sauce.

Crabs, Deviled. — Pick out the meat of
four dozen boiled hard-shell crabs, put it into a



42 SCALLOP BROTH.

bowl, and add a half-pint of mayonnaise. Mix
carefully with your hand ; wash a dozen of the
shells, put a little of the mixture into each ; grate
a loaf of dry bread, season a pint of it with salt
and pepper, sprinkle it over the crabs evenly ;
make twelve httle balls of butter about the size
of hickory-nuts ; put one on top of each crab,
and bake in a quick oven.



SCALLOPS.



The scallop-shell is familiar to even the chil-
dren who have visited the seashore, and the
novice wonders why so small a tidbit should
require so large a shell. The edible part of the
scallop is only the powerful central muscle by
which the mollusk opens and closes its shell. The
medium-sized scallops are the best. The very
large and very white variety are more than likely
to have been inflated and bleached by the aid
of saleratus.

Scallop-shells were extensively used in ancient
cookery, and gave to various dishes the prefix
" scalloped."

Scallop Broth. — The peculiar flavor of
scallops is quite attractive to the convalescent,
and a broth made from them is nourishing ; but



SMALL PATTIES OF SCALLOPS. 43

care should be exercised in selecting the shell-
fish. To improve their appearance, shippers
add quantities of saleratus to the scallops, which
has the effect of bleaching them, and increasing
their size : this custom may please the dealers,
but not consumers. Select ' medium-sized scal-
lops of a natural creamy color, wash them, and
cut them into small pieces. To half a pint of
these, add half a pint of warm water and half a
pint of milk, a " pea " of butter, and a pinch
of salt ; simmer for twenty minutes ; strain and
serve.

A pint of milk and no water may be used
if the patient desires it.

Small Patties of Scallops. — Wash a
pint of scallops, drain, cut them up, and scald
them ; then put them in just milk enough to
prevent burning. Add salt and white pepper,
simmer until quite tender, and thicken with half
a teaspoonful of flour dissolved in cold water.
Pour this mixture in small patty-shells (see recipe
for oyster patties), and serve after the soup and
before the fish, or as an entree.

Fried Scallops. — Rinse a pint of scallops
in cold water slightly salted, then dry them in a
napkin, and dredge them slightly with flour.
Fry them in pork-fat. Egg batter and crumbs
are not recommended.



44 SCALLOPS EN BROCHETTE.

Scallops en Brochette. — Drain twenty-
four medium-sized scallops in a napkin. Parboil
them a moment. When cool arrange them on
four skewers, six on each, alternated with thin
slices of bacon the size of the scallops in width.
Brush over the scallops a little melted butter,
and broil. When done, serve with tufts of water-
cresses and lemon.

Stewed Scallops. — Scald fifteen scallops,
and put them into a stewpan with half a pint
of boiling milk, a dash of cayenne, and a salt-
spoonful of salt. Just before serving, add very
litde table butter.



MUSSELS.



The Mussel is called the poor man's
oyster ; but why the poor should have a monop-
oly of this very useful shellfish, the writer is at
a loss to comprehend. During warm weather
the spiced mussel is a treat : it may have the
honor of ushering in a family dinner instead
of the clam, and at collations and suppers it
should be welcome. As they may be purchased
at from eighteen to twenty- five cents per quart,
it is a waste of time to pickle them at home,
unless living at the seashore.



REMARKS ON THE LOBSTER. 45



THE LOBSTER.

Remarks on the Lobster. — It takes a
lobster about five years to arrive at maturity, or
over ten inches in length. The spawning season
depends upon the temperature of the water.
Along the Sound, the season begins in June,
and ends in September.

The Season for Lobster. — Lobsters
are at their best before the spawning season.
They are then filled with roe, or coral as the
red spawn is called by some. This is a great
delicacy, and is highly esteemed by epicures.
After the spawning season, which is late in the
summer, they are in very poor condition, and
should not be offered for sale until cool weather.

The green part in the body of the lobster is
called the tom-alley by New- England folks. It
is excellent eating.

The external spawn adhering to the tail of
the female lobster, when not highly developed,
is edible, and is used in garnishing and making
lobster butter, paste, and cardinal-fish sauces.

It is a curious fact, that the lobster changes
or re-makes a shell from eight to ten times the
first year, five to seven the second, three to four
the third, and from two to three the fourth



46 SOFT-SHELL LOBSTER NOT EDIBLE.

year. So says Professor G. O. Sars of Norway,
about the European lobster, whose habits agree
more or less closely with those of the American
lobster.

Soft-shell Lobster not edible. — After
the fifth year the change of shell is only an-
nual. A soft-shell or shedder lobster, unlike
the soft-shell crab, is not edible, and if eaten is
likely to produce ill effects. In a soft condition
the lobster itself is sick, and is therefore unfit for
food.

Selecting Lobsters. — Always select a firm
shell, of a deep dark-green color. Light-colored,
thin-shelled lobsters are likely to be lean and
poor. When plunged into the boiling water,
the joints contract, and the tail draws under,
provided the lobster was ahve at the time of
immersion. If dead when boiled, the tendons are
relaxed, the claws hang loosely, the tail will not
possess a spring-like tenacity when straightened
out. Select the former, and reject the latter.

Value of the Lobster as Food. —
According to Professor Atwater of Middletown,
Conn., the nutritive value of the flesh of the
lobster, compared v/ith beef as a standard and
reckoned at loo, is 6i to 97. Forty per cent
of the lobster is edible, the remainder is shell
and waste.



BROILED LOBSTER. 47

Buckland says, " That phosphorus exists in
large quantities, may be easily proved. A
lobster in hot weather, when it ceases to be
fresh, assumes a highly phosphorescent appear-
ance when seen in the dark, equal if not superior
to that of a glow-worm or luminous centipede.
This light increases by friction. . . . The pres-
sence of phosphorus in the lobster is of great
importance to the consumers of these sea
luxuries. There is no substance which conveys
phosphorus so readily into the human system
in an agreeable form, and which the system so
readily and quickly assimilates, as the flesh of
crabs and lobsters."

Broiled Lobster. — Select alive and active
lobster not less than ten and a half inches long.
(If below this measurement, the dealer should
be arrested for breaking the law which protects
the lobster.) Split it in two lengthwise, which
instantly kills it. Remove the entrail through
the fleshy part of the tail, and the crop or
stomach near the head. This done, there are
two ways of preparing it for table. One is as
follows : —

Remove the flesh from the tail, and brush
over it a little melted butter or ohve-oil ; broil it
gently, but not too well done. Heat the shell,
put the meat back in the shell again, add more



48 LOBSTER CROQUETTES, WITH PEASE.

butter, salt, pepper, and serve on hot plates.
The body parts may be boiled, and furnish
dainty pickings for a late meal.

The other way is that which is generally
adopted by restaurants. Brush a little butter
over the entire half of the green lobster ; broil
the shell side thoroughly first, then turn, and
broil the other. Serve with maitre-d'hotel sauce.

A lobster that has once been boiled and then
broiled is so thoroughly over-cooked as to be
very indigestible.

Lobster Croquettes, with Pease. — Boil
one-half pint of milk, thicken it with a table-
spoonful of flour, and let it become cold. Mince
the meat of a one-pound can of lobster, or one
pound of fresh lobster ; when very fine, add a
saltspoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful of
white pepper. Moisten the lobster mince with
the thickened milk, and work the whole to a
paste ; add very little bread-crumb if too thin ;
let it become amalgamated over the range, and
place in the ice-box until wanted ; then shape it
into neat rolls or cones ; dip them in egg and
crumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat. Arrange
the forms neatly on a dish, put round them a
border of pease, and serve.

Lobsters en Brochette. — Instead of boil-
ing the lobster-tails, cut them in pieces, and



DEVILED LOBSTER. 49

arrange these on small skewers, alternated with
small pieces of bacon ; brush melted butter over
them, and either broil or bake them ; serve with
sauce tartare (which see on p. 84).

Deviled Lobster. — Take two Hve lobsters,
remove the tails, split them in two, and make
several incisions in them crosswise. Mix to-
gether half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful
each of dry mustard and curry, and half a salt-
spoonful of white pepper, add a tablespoonful of
oil ; mix, spread it over the lobsters, and broil
them. When done, return to the shells, which
should have been kept hot for the purpose ;
pour a little melted butter over them, and serve.

Stewed Lobster, a la Creole. — Remove
the tail part of the meat from three green lob-
sters ; split them in two lengthwise ; remove the
thread-like intestine. Melt an ounce of butter in
a deep frying-pan ; add the lobster ; toss it for a
few minutes in the butter ; add salt and pepper
and half a pint of hot water ; cover, and simmer
three-quarters of an hour; drain, and reduce
the water one-half by rapid boiling. Put in
a saucepan half an ounce of butter and a
tablespoonful of minced onion ; fry brown, and
add three peeled and sliced tomatoes, one sweet
pepper, four okra pods cut small, and half a tea-
spoonful of salt. Allow these to cook fifteen



50 CURRY OF LOBSTER.

minutes, add the broth, and simmer until
reduced to a pulp ; rub through a sieve ; put
this pwee on a hot dish, place the lobster on
top, add a little lemon-juice, and serve.

Curry of Lobster. — Remove the meat
from two boiled lobsters, cut it into neat pieces ;
take all green fat and coral, and set them aside ;
mix the green fat with a heaping spoonful
of curry-powder. Squeeze out the juice of three
limes, and add to it half a teaspoonful of pow-
dered sugar. Put into a frying-pan an ounce
of butter ; when creamed add a teaspoonful of
minced onion browned a little ; now add the
mixed curry-powder ; dissolve a teaspoonful of
rice-flour in cold water, add this to a pint of hot
Vv-at'^r or soup-stock, simmer until thick; now
add the lobster, and simmer twenty minutes
longer. Wash and dry the coral, separate it.
Prepare a border of rice on a dish, and over it
sprinkle the coral and eggs (if any) ; pour the
curry in the centre, and serve.

Lobster Salad. — Take two live hen (female)
lobsters ; boil them thirty minutes ; drain. When
cold, break them apart ; crack the claws, and
if the tail-fins are covered with eggs remove
them carefully. Take out the sand-pouch found
near the head ; split the fleshy part of the tail
in two lengthwise, remove the small long entrail



THE OYSTER CRAR. 5 1

found therein. Adhering to the body-shell
may be found a layer of creamy fat ; save this,
and also the green fat in the body of the
lobster (called tom-alley by New-Englanders),
and the coral. If celery is used, tear the lob-
ster into shreds with forks ; if lettuce, cut the
lobster into half-inch pieces. Place the salad
herb in a bowl, add the lobster and the fat, and
pour over it a rich mayonnaise ; garnish with
the claws and heads, tufts of green, hard-boiled
eggs, etc. The lobster eggs may be separated,
and sprinkled over the mayonnaise. The coral
is used for coloring mayonnaise, and also butter,
which is then used in decorating salmon and
other dark fish used in salads.



THE OYSTER CRAB.

The little crab found in the oyster is not, as
commonly supposed by two-thirds of the oyster-
eating community to be, the young of the blue
crab ; but it is a distinct species. It is a mess-
mate of and caterer to the wants of the oyster,
being therefore a benefit instead of a detriment
to the latter. In return for the oyster's kindness
in protecting it against its enemies, the little
crab catches and crushes food which in its en-



52 TO SERVE OYSTER CRABS.

tire state could not be taken by the oyster. A
singular thing in connection Avith them is, that
all found inside of the oyster are females. The
male of the same variety is found in the neigh-
borhood, but its shell is firm.

Oyster-crabs are found at the grocer's, put up
in half-pint bottles, which retail from 60 to 75
cents each. At the markets they are sold at
^2.50 per quart.

To Serve Oyster Crabs. — Put on a
small saucer a crisp but dry leaf of lettuce, and
put in the centre of each leaf a scant tablespoon-
ful of the oyster crabs. Add a scant teaspoon-
ful of mayonnaise to each, and serve as a whet
before a ladies' collation, or at an afternoon
luncheon.

Oyster-Crab Omelet. — This is a most
tempting dish. Roll an ounce of butter into
little balls, dredge these with flour, put them in
a pan, and when they begin to melt whisk them ;
do not let it brown; add a gill of hot water,
and simmer until thick ; now add half a pint of
oyster crabs, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Beat
up four eggs thoroughly, and make them into an
omelet ; just before folding, add the crabs, and
serve.

Oyster-Crab Sauce. — Add a tablespoon-
ful of oyster-crabs to half a pint of drawn



SHRIMPS. 53

butter, sauce hollandaise, or in fact any white
or cream fish-sauce, and serve with boiled
fish.

ACKNOWLEDGiMENT.

The writer is deeply indebted to Prof. George
Brown Goode's compilation and reports of the
*' Fishery Industries of the United States," for
much of the natural history of fish and shell
embodied in this work.



SHRIMPS.



The common shrimp, which is caught in im-
mense quantities along our coast all summer, and
used for bait, is a dainty which summer residents
should not neglect. When a shrimp salad is
wanted, however, the servant is sent to the nearest
grocer for a can of Southern shrimp, and the
dehcious morsel at their very door is used to
feed the fishes. The trouble seems to be, that
servants dislike the trouble of picking them out
of their transparent shells.

Summer hotels would buy the native shrimp
if fishermen would take the trouble of ofi'ering
them. No more appetizing or appropriate garnish
for lobster salads and for portions of boiled fish



54 MARKET PRICE OF SHRIMPS.

can be imagined than the little home shrimp
properly boiled. A plunge into the hot water is
about all the cooking they need.

Market Price of Shrimps. — Cooked and
shelled shrimps are to be had in our markets
during warm weather, for from thirty to fifty cents
per quart. Canned shrimps retail for from thirty
to forty cents per can, and ^3.50 per dozen.
Rinse them in fresh water before using them.

Shrimp Omelet. — Toss half a pint of
canned or fresh shrimps in a little hot butter for
a moment; add a little salt and pepper and a
tablespoonful of tomato sauce. Prepare the
omelet, and just before folding add the shrimps,
and serve.

Shrimp Sauce. — Cut up the shrimps into
halves, add them to a creamy fish sauce of any
kind ; mix and serve.



PRAWNS.



Scientifically there is a difference between the
prawn and the shrimp ; but it need not be con-
sidered by the housewife, except that the prawn,
that comes to this market from the South already
cooked and shelled, is larger than the shrimp,
and a little stronger flavored.



CURRY OF PRAWNS 55

The shrimps and prawns are found in salt and
brackish water, while the crayfish are inhabitants
of fresh water.

Curry of Prawns. — Prawns are at their
best served as a curry. Boil two quarts of live
prawns thirty minutes, drain when slightly cooled,
break away the shells, and set them aside. Put
two ounces of butter in a frying-pan ; when very
hot add a clove of garlic and one sliced apple ;
brown slightly, remove the garlic, and add a des-
sertspoonful of curry-powder mixed with a gill
of water; stir, and add half a pint of soup-stock
and half a teaspoonful of flour; now add the
prawns, and the juice of half a lemon in which
a lump of sugar has been dissolved. Pour out
on a hot dish, and send to table with rice
croquettes.

Prawns, Deviled, en Coquille. — Simmer
a quart of prawns fifteen minutes in water fla-
vored with a little sharp vinegar ; drain, and cut
them very fine. Add two ounces of butter, a gill
of water, salt and pepper, the yolks of two eggs,
and bread-crumbs to absorb the moisture. Mix
to a paste. Partly fill the shells, cover with
crumbs, add a small pat of butter to each, and
bake to a delicate brown.

Prawns, Saute, a la Marengo. — Wash
one pint of " shelled " prawns, simmer them



56 PRAWN SALAD.

twenty minutes, drain, and toss them a moment
in a little hot olive-oil ; remove them, add a sprig
of parsley, half a dozen button mushrooms, a
gill of hot water, salt and pepper, and thicken
with a little flour. Put the prawns on a dish,
pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried
eggs and slices of tomatoes fried.

Prawn Salad. — Take one quart of prawns
and one quart and a pint of cut celery ; put the
celery in a bowl ; add the prawns ; garnish neatly,
and serve with a mayonnaise.



CRAYFISH.



The crayfish are inhabitants of fresh- water
streams ; and they bear a striking resemblance
to the lobster in appearance, spawning habits,
shedding their shell, etc. Their season begins
early in the spring, and lasts until cold weather.
During a bountiful supply of these delicious
shell-fish, large quantities are packed away in
ice-houses for winter use, when there is a big
demand for them from caterers who use them
as garnishment, and for salads and sauces. They
cost from three to four dollars per hundred
in the New- York markets. Those that come
from Milwaukee are highly esteemed; and, as



CRAYFISH OMELET. 57

they are already cooked, they may be used at
luncheon, and on fast-days as salads. A cray-
fish salad is an enjoyable dish.

Crayfish Omelet. — Rinse half a pint of
crayfish tails in salted water, and drain them ;
then split each tail in two lengthwise, and re-
move the thread-like intestine found therein.
Toss them about a moment in a little butter and
tablespoonful of broth or gravy ; season with a
dash of cayenne. Make a four-egg omelet, and
just before folding add the crayfish.



SALMON.



Salmon Steak. — Put into fast boihng water,
salted, a slice of fresh salmon, and boil for five
minutes quite rapidly ; then set on back of the
range where it will simmer for fifteen minutes
longer. Drain, and place it on a napkin sur-
rounded with a border of parsley. On the two
ends of the platter place slices of lemon. Serve
with a sauce in a sauce-boat. Drawn butter
with a few prawns or shrimps cut up in it is a
nice sauce for salmon.

Canned Salmon. — The canning of salmon
at the source of supply has been of lasting ben-
efit to mankind, for we are now able to pro-



58 SALMON PATTIES.

cure a pound of salmon in any quarter of the
globe for a reasonable sum. Canned salmon
has one advantage over the fresh fish : it does
not deteriorate, and lose its flavor. Those who
have tried it say they do not get surfeited with
canned salmon, although many of the same indi-
viduals dislike the fresh salmon owing to its
richness, and on this account rarely eat it.

Salmon Patties. — This is a very nice way
of serving salmon at luncheon. Open a pound
can of salmon, drain, add to the small amount of
salmon liquid sufficient water to make a gill,
season it with salt and pepper, and, if on hand,
add a httle anchovy paste. Beat up the yolks
of tv/o eggs with half a teaspoonful of flour dis-
solved in a little cold water or milk : add the gill
of water, place it on the range to become hot
and thick, whisking it meanwhile ; break the
salmon into pieces, and add to the sauce. When
quite hot, fill the patty shells with it, and serve.
A very rich sauce may be made by the addition
of butter and cream.

The patty shells are made as follows : Roll out
some very light puff-paste, half an inch thick ;
stamp it in rounds with a three-inch cutter, press
a small cutter in the middle of each round to
the depth of quarter of an inch ; put the rounds
on a buttered tin, brush a little beaten egg over



SALMON SURPRISE. 59

them, and bake in a quick oven. When done,
remove the centre, scoop out a httle of the inside,
and the shells are ready for the mixture.

Salmon Surprise. — Boil two quarts of
potatoes with their jackets on. When done, peel
and mash them with butter and warm milk.
Arrange a border of potatoes on a flat, oval dish.
In the centre of this put a pound of canned or
cold salmon separated into neat-sized pieces, salt,
pepper, a very little mace, and a teaspoonful of
chopped parsley ; cover the salmon with a layer
of raw oysters ; add a little oyster-liquor, cover
the oysters with a thin smooth layer of mashed
potato, and brush the beaten yolk of egg over
all. Then make a small hole in the centre, and
place the dish in an oven hot enough to brown
the outside quickly.

Salmon a la Creole. — Scald and put
three large tomatoes to simmer in very little
water, until tender : chop up very fine a sweet
Spanish pepper and quarter of an onion ; fry
these in a little bacon fat ; add the tomato, salt,
and httle white pepper. Simmer until reduced
to a pulp. Open a pound can of salmon ; set
the can in a saucepan half full of hot water, turn
the salmon out on a dish. When it is quite hot,
pour the pulp over it, and serve. Canned toma-
toes may be used instead of fresh tomatoes.



60 SALMON PIE.

Salmon Pie. — Cut up four boiled potatoes
into neat pieces ; cut half a pound of boiled salt
pork into dice ; divide a pound of canned sal-
mon into symmetrical pieces ; roll out quarter of
a pound of puff-paste, cut it into squares, and roll
each of these into a little ball. Arrange these
ingredients alternately in a deep yellow dish, sea-
son with salt and pepper, add hot water or gravy
to prevent burning, cover the top with paste,
make a hole in the centre, and bake in a moder-
ate oven.

Salmon in Jelly. — Take one gallon of
clear soup, and boil it down to a quart. Soak
a teaspoonful of gelatine in cold water, and add
to the reduced soup to make sure that it will
be stiff when cold.

Take a two-quart tin mould, set it on ice, and
pour enough of the liquid in it to cover the
bottom. Let this become firm. Cut into slices,
and then into diamonds, boiled beets, white
turnips, and cold boiled tongue ; dip each into
the liquid, and place them in the mould in a
very neat and artistic manner ; when they be-
come firm, spread over them a layer an inch
thick, of cream-mashed potato ; now add a
pound of canned salmon, and pour round the
edges and on top the remainder of the reduced
soup, and set the mould in a very cold place to



SALMON OMELET. 6 1

become firm. When wanted, dip the mould into
hot water quickly, and turn it out. This is an
excellent dish for collations, wedding break-
fasts, etc. The potato must be made rich with
butter and milk, and beaten to a light consist-
ency before being placed in the mould. Any
other kind of cold fish will answer quite as well
as salmon for this and other dishes herein
mentioned.

Salmon Omelet. — Separate half a pound
of canned salmon into flakes, season with salt and
pepper, a little lemon-juice, and add a little of
the Uquid; heat it a little, whip up the eggs
for an omelet, prepare it as usual, and just be-
fore completing the fold add the salmon ; then
turn it out on a hot dish.

Salmon, German Style. — Boil two quarts
of sauerkraut ; drain it, and pile it on a hot
dish ; have ready a pound of canned salmon
hot ; make a hole in the centre of the kraut,
insert the fish, simmer and season the salmon
liquid, pour it over the dish, and serve.

Salmon a 1 'Italienne. — Boil half a pound
of macaroni in water slightly salted ; drain.
Heat a can of salmon in hot water ; turn it out
on a dish ; arrange the macaroni round it ; pour
over the macaroni the contents of a pound
can of tomato-pulp (hot), sprinkle over this a
little grated Parmesan cheese, and serve.
